# Conspectus
Overview of the history of the Combs' monarchy, including the transition from the first king to King Taymus, the impact of the Treaty of Quoath, and a brief note on governmental services and social structure.

---

The first monarch of the Combs was the commander of AlSahra' when it arrived at Samūm. He continued to rule and was the king when the near war happened (from 2190 to 2220). He was concerned about keeping his control over the Combs and the rest of Samūm, and as a result inadvertently caused much of the tension between the two factions. 

After the near-war, the first monarch was replaced by his youngest son, Taymus. This second king of the Combs honestly tried to be a good ruler. He instituted many reforms to increase the welfare of the city and the wellbeing of its people. The beginning of his rule was marked by the Treaty of Quoath - mediated by the Nüüdelchid and Ísreikistjarna delegations.

The Treaty of Quoath changed many things about life in the Combs. While the delegates from the two other major civilizations in the system were unwilling or unable to directly enforce changes on Samūm's government, they did insist on several policies which King Taymus took to heart. The first was that water would be delivered on a regular basis from Ísreikistjarna via several water-carriers constructed and manned by the Nüüdelchid. This treaty stipulated that the water would belong to *all* residents of Samūm equally. It also went as far as possible to decrease the power of the Comb's troublesome monarch by stating that no interplanetary trade would be conducted with the royal family of the Combs. While King Taymus did implement this policy and used his wealth and influence to benefit its people; his older brothers, who were put in charge of industry and finance respectively by the first king, tried to undermine the treaty's effectiveness. Under the banner of reform, they instituted a scheme where they started and financed dozens of businesses which they hoped to use as fronts to trade with the other planets. To get around the ban, they maintained a 49.9 percent ownership of all of the companies they started, then made sure that the other holders were likely to split over major decisions, giving them effective control.  Lacking the power to enforce any other policy and trying to keep peace within his kingdom, King Taymus overlooked this sly dealing. His own fortunes were mostly tied up in the infrastructure of the city; which he ran more as a community property, using taxes to maintain the city rather than increase his own wealth. The companies he did start under the initiative, however, were very successful - and the jealousy of his brothers increased. 

**A note on governmental services.**
First, there are virtually no taxes, per-say. All residents of the combs pay for services they use directly. Second, there is very little in the way of insurance, typical banking or finance or investment markets. These things are impractical in a highly mobile and multiplanetary society. Additionally, facilities such as hospitals, nursing homes or large medical facilities are uncommon. Technology has miniaturized enough that the majority of the infrastructure needed for a hospital is unnecessary. A well-equipped ambulance has the majority of the capabilities of a hospital today. Finally, in the case of poor people who are unable to afford medical care or other services typically rendered through social security, there is a large and active church with a monastic culture of people who travel throughout the system and provide free medical and social services for those in need. 

Monastics are actually a large component of the working class above. Over 50% of medical, hospitality, academic, agriculture, public services,; and 70% of cultural workers are actually within monastics or other services offered by the church.
